packages/perseus/src/widgets/radio/__docs__/a11y.mdx, before:

import {Meta} from "@storybook/addon-docs/blocks";

<Meta title="Widgets/RadioNew/Accessibility" />

# Radio Widget Accessibility

The new Radio widget is designed to be accessible for all users, including those using assistive technologies.

## Keyboard Navigation

-   Users can navigate to each radio option using the `Tab` key.
-   Once focused, options can be selected with `Space` or `Enter`.
-   Arrow keys (`Up`/`Down` or `Left`/`Right`) allow users to move between radio options within the group.
-   Only one option can be selected at a time in single-select mode; multiple in multi-select mode if enabled.

## Screen Reader Support

-   The radio group and options use appropriate ARIA roles (`radiogroup`, `radio`) and attributes to communicate their state to screen readers.
-   The `aria-label` is set based on the widget's `ariaLabel` or `visibleLabel` prop, or defaults to a localized string (e.g., "Select an answer").
-   The currently selected option is announced to screen readers.

## Visible Labels and Instructions

-   If a `visibleLabel` is provided, it is rendered as a `<label>` and associated with the radio group for better accessibility.
-   Instructions or context can be provided via `ariaLabel` or visible text.

## Best Practices

-   Always provide a meaningful `visibleLabel` or `ariaLabel` for context.
-   Avoid using only color to convey meaning in radio options.
-   Ensure the radio group is not set to `readOnly` unless necessary, as this disables interaction.

## Additional Notes

-   The widget leverages accessible patterns and is tested for compatibility with major screen readers and browsers.
-   If you encounter any accessibility issues, please report them to the team.

Commit message:

[radio-a11y-comments-and-adjustments] Update accessibility document in Storybook. Correct unit test.

packages/perseus/src/widgets/radio/__docs__/a11y.mdx, after:

import {Meta} from "@storybook/addon-docs/blocks";

<Meta title="Widgets/RadioNew/Accessibility" />

# Radio Widget Accessibility

The new Radio widget is designed to be accessible for all users, including those using assistive technologies.

## Keyboard Navigation

-   Users can navigate to each radio option using the `Tab` key.
-   Once focused, options can be selected with `Space` or `Enter`.
-   Only one option can be selected at a time in single-select mode
   -   Options are automatically deselected when another option is chosen.
-   Multiple options can be selected when multi-select mode is enabled.

## Screen Reader Support

-   Choices are rendered as a list, allowing screen readers to communicate the number of options to the user.
-   Choice buttons are identified as toggle buttons, in order to convey their state (selected or unselected).
   -   Buttons of type `radio` have specific expectations for interaction which do not apply to this widget.
-   Choices are labelled in the following manner: "(Choice <letter>) <choice-text>".
   -   For example, "(Choice A) Paris, France".
-   When in review mode, choices are marked as disabled,
    but learners can still navigate to them to have the screen reader review the choices and their rationales.
    -   Only correct choices are labelled as such (i.e. "Choice A, Correct").
    -   If rationale exists, it is included via `aria-describedby`,
        letting learners access that additional information in a familiar manner for expanded content.
        (content in `aria-describedby` is presented differently by different screen readers)

## Additional Notes

-   The widget leverages accessible patterns and is tested for compatibility with major screen readers and browsers.
-   If you encounter any accessibility issues, please report them to the team.
