packages/perseus-a11y-metrics/README.md, before:

# @khanacademy/perseus-a11y-metrics

This package contains scripts that collect analytics data. It doesn't export
anything, and is not intended for release on NPM.

## Output

The data generated by this package goes to the following places on Google
Cloud:

- An object in Google Cloud Storage: [khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics/exercise-accessibility-data-nl.json]
- A table in BigQuery: [khan-data-lake/perseus/exercise-accessibility]

[khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics/exercise-accessibility-data-nl.json]: https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics;tab=objects
[khan-data-lake/perseus/exercise-accessibility]: https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?ws=!1m5!1m4!4m3!1skhan-data-lake!2sperseus!3sexercise-accessibility


## Dependencies

To run the scripts in this package, you must have installed:

- [gcloud]
- [jq]

[gcloud]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install
[jq]: https://jqlang.org/manual/

We use `gcloud` to transfer data to and from Google Cloud Storage. We use `jq`
to parse JSON files that are too large to be loaded into a JavaScript string.

## Running scripts

```bash
packages/perseus-a11y-metrics/src/main.ts
```

This analyzes the accessibility of Perseus exercise content on
khanacademy.org, and uploads the results to Google Cloud Storage.

## Code organization

- `domain/` is for the core domain/business logic.
- `platform/` knows about NodeJS and CLI stuff.
- `main.ts` and its siblings are the glue holding the other parts together.

## Future work

We'd really like to avoid depending on `jq` and `gcloud` CLIs. To break these
dependencies, we'd have to:

- find or write a JSON stream parsing library, to replace `jq`.
- install the [`@google-cloud/storage`] package from NPM. This is more
  complicated than it sounds, because the library depends on a version of
  `uuid` that's incompatible with our Jest setup — installing it causes the
  test runner to crash. I think the issue has something to do with Jest expecting
  commonjs packages, and `uuid` not exporting commonjs.
  - We could avoid the Jest problem entirely by moving this package to its
    own git repository.

[`@google-cloud/storage`]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@google-cloud/storage

Moving this package to a new, private git repository would have other benefits
as well:

- It doesn't really belong in perseus, because this analytics data isn't
  needed by our partners to run the repo.
- The GCS buckets used are private and can't be accessed by anyone outside
  Khan Academy.

On the other hand, keeping the package in the perseus repo has benefits. The
analytics script depends on `@khanacademy/perseus-core`, and keeping it in the
perseus repo ensures that it's always using the latest version.

If we moved the analytics script to its own repo, we might be able to ensure
it's always using the latest `@khanacademy/perseus-core` by:

- allowing any version of `@khanacademy/perseus-core` in `package.json`:
  ```json
  "@khanacademy/perseus-core": "*",
  ```
- releasing the script as a package on NPM.
- running it via `pnpx`:
  ```bash
  pnpx @khanacademy/perseus-a11y-metrics
  ```

Commit message:

[benc/a11y-metrics] Updating readme with permissions requirements.

packages/perseus-a11y-metrics/README.md, after:

# @khanacademy/perseus-a11y-metrics

This package contains scripts that collect analytics data. It doesn't export
anything, and is not intended for release on NPM.

## Permissions

To run this script you will need specific permissions to view and upload this new data. This includes:

- storage.objects.get (for the source objects)
- storage.objects.create (for the destination bucket)
- storage.objects.list (for the destination bucket)
- storage.objects.delete (for the destination bucket)
- storage.buckets.get (for the destination bucket)

## Output

The data generated by this package goes to the following places on Google
Cloud:

- An object in Google Cloud Storage: [khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics/exercise-accessibility-data-nl.json]
- A table in BigQuery: [khan-data-lake/perseus/exercise-accessibility]

[khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics/exercise-accessibility-data-nl.json]: https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/khanflow-prod-bq-archive-unused-table-expiration/khan_test/perseus/analytics;tab=objects
[khan-data-lake/perseus/exercise-accessibility]: https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?ws=!1m5!1m4!4m3!1skhan-data-lake!2sperseus!3sexercise-accessibility

## Dependencies

To run the scripts in this package, you must have installed:

- [gcloud]
- [jq]

[gcloud]: https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install
[jq]: https://jqlang.org/manual/

We use `gcloud` to transfer data to and from Google Cloud Storage. We use `jq`
to parse JSON files that are too large to be loaded into a JavaScript string.

## Running scripts

```bash
packages/perseus-a11y-metrics/src/main.ts
```

This analyzes the accessibility of Perseus exercise content on
khanacademy.org, and uploads the results to Google Cloud Storage.

## Code organization

- `domain/` is for the core domain/business logic.
- `platform/` knows about NodeJS and CLI stuff.
- `main.ts` and its siblings are the glue holding the other parts together.

## Future work

We'd really like to avoid depending on `jq` and `gcloud` CLIs. To break these
dependencies, we'd have to:

- find or write a JSON stream parsing library, to replace `jq`.
- install the [`@google-cloud/storage`] package from NPM. This is more
  complicated than it sounds, because the library depends on a version of
  `uuid` that's incompatible with our Jest setup — installing it causes the
  test runner to crash. I think the issue has something to do with Jest expecting
  commonjs packages, and `uuid` not exporting commonjs.
  - We could avoid the Jest problem entirely by moving this package to its
    own git repository.

[`@google-cloud/storage`]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@google-cloud/storage

Moving this package to a new, private git repository would have other benefits
as well:

- It doesn't really belong in perseus, because this analytics data isn't
  needed by our partners to run the repo.
- The GCS buckets used are private and can't be accessed by anyone outside
  Khan Academy.

On the other hand, keeping the package in the perseus repo has benefits. The
analytics script depends on `@khanacademy/perseus-core`, and keeping it in the
perseus repo ensures that it's always using the latest version.

If we moved the analytics script to its own repo, we might be able to ensure
it's always using the latest `@khanacademy/perseus-core` by:

- allowing any version of `@khanacademy/perseus-core` in `package.json`:

  ```json
  "@khanacademy/perseus-core": "*",
  ```

- releasing the script as a package on NPM.
- running it via `pnpx`:

  ```bash
  pnpx @khanacademy/perseus-a11y-metrics
  ```
